Transcribe 5 (8826 Words, Accuracy 99.05%) - Philippines All In Webinar Recording

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L7CV2wNR1zs

You Hello, everyone we'll begin the webinar shortly, just giving one or two minutes for people to come in and we'll start.
Good morning good afternoon and good evening, everyone. On behalf of the UNICEF at the Pacific Regional Office, and the UNICEF Philippines country office and our colleagues in New York a very warm welcome to everyone joining this webinar. I'm surely Mark Prabhu HIV Aids specialist as the unit of East Asia and the Pacific Regional outfit, together with our regional HIV team here. Joining us in the Philippines are our country office HIV team and colleagues from the etymology Bureau, Department of Health in Manila case on city and Cebu City. Before we begin, a few things to remember, a webinar will be on audio only mode. So to avoid connection. And if you're listening in, we request you to please turn your microphone on mute. So to avoid feedback and other audio issues. For questions we are suggesting embrace them via the instant messaging option for business. We have started about 30 minutes for q&a after the presentations. And we don't like to inform you will that the slides from the webinar will be available data and we will share them with you as well as the link to the recordings. We'll begin the session with a deep introduction to the All in ending AIDS and adolescents platform in February 2015. UNICEF and UN AIDS lots of broad effort to accelerate progress in the AIDS response for adolescent tension it is known as the all and adolescent. And all in is a collaborative platform to drive results for adolescents at risk of HIV critical changes, program and policy. This platform unites actors across sectors to accelerate reductions and age related deaths and new HIV infections among adolescents by 2020. And towards ending the AIDS epidemic for all by 2032 specific targets have been set to 20 that is to reduce new HIV infections upon adolescents by SDS 35% and reduce AIDS related deaths among adolescents by at least 6%. Working in collaboration with UNICEF and urinates other partners who are who UNFPA, PEPFAR, the Global Fund, NTV, other governments here in this region in Africa, and youth networks at both global regional and country levels. Four key action areas of the audit are engaging, mobilizing and supporting adolescents as leaders and agents of social change, sharpening adolescents elements of national AIDS programs through improved data collection and analysis. And in today's webinar, we'll get to hear more of the experience today. And the third area is innovation, innovation, both technologies and approaches for input and lesson engagement, and increased impact of prevention, treatment and care programs. The fourth areas advocacy, communication and resource mobilization in the context of the law and concentrate epidemic contexts, if you're in East Asia Pacific, the four countries were implementing the Orland, China, Indonesia, Philippines and Thailand. And to measure program performance and equity gaps, UNICEF, both globally and regionally have supported several country's national adolescent HIV data assessments since the launch of the wall in February 2015. The assessment into three phases, phase one, the rapid assessment at both national and sub national levels to define who's most affected, where are they located, and what interventions have the largest competency gaps. Phase two is in depth analysis of bottlenecks and the phase three, and the phase three is evidence informed planning to identify corrective actions to address bottlenecks, data gaps and to improve intervention coverage quality impact. These assessments are helping countries to target the most appropriate interventions to the adolescents at greatest risk of HIV infections. Today, we will hear from our colleagues in the UNICEF Philippines country office and epidemiology Bureau Department of Health in Manila, Cape Town city and Cebu City, how they have worked together implementing the policy. Let me now invite Dr. Willie ball back chief health and nutrition to share on how the HIV T has supported the phase one and phase two implementation and engagement with the health epidemiology bureau. The local government units, the young population works in implementing the audit. Over to you Dr. Weil. Thank you.
Thank you, Shirley. Good morning. Good evening. Good afternoon. My name is Wil zek. I'm the Chief of health and nutrition in the UNICEF Philippines country office. And I just do a bit of an introduction about the support to phase one and two, in terms of implementation of all in in the Philippines. A bit of a background about the Philippines Philippines has undergone Enix has gone from an extremely centralized health system in the 70s and 80s to an extremely decentralized health system with 1500 districts. Each district has a mayor who is very powerful. It's a very much bottom up approach. You could say we have 7100 islands we have also armed conflict ongoing in the southern part of the county. trade. As you might know, we have typhoons, earthquakes, natural disasters, and they also have rapid urbanization like any other Southeast Asian country, with all its advantages and disadvantages. The Philippines is among those countries with highest economic growth in Southeast Asia. And that means that we have also increasing government funds available. And with economic growth and increasing funds. Also, in the health sector, we have increasing inequities. But at the same time, this is a major or important stage for a better opportunity in terms of the stage that the Philippines is in at the moment, in terms of political economy. And for partners such as UNICEF, we have to reorient ourselves into a mix of technical and policy oriented support. And I think the ALL Initiative shows that this technical and policy oriented support is put into practice. In terms of HIV, you might or you're quite, you might be aware that Philippines is one of the few countries in the world with an expanding HIV epidemic. In 2008, we had one case being reported every day. And now in 2015, we have 22 cases being diagnosed every day. And that's really a substantial increase that cannot be ignored. And if we dig more into the data, we can see, the prevalence among the general population is still low, it's be below 1%. But as I said, the increase is the worry. If you look at the key populations, we see that 10% of of the affected ones are men having sex with men and female sex workers. We have 52% injected drug users. And most importantly, and most interestingly, adolescents, we find that more than 50% of all new infections are in the age group 25, to 3428, between 15 and 24. And that's our main worry, we have a data gap among 10 to 14 year olds. And we know that the young generation is entering sexual life earlier and earlier. And so this data will be very important, especially for girls. So why all in the Philippines, I think you saw the numbers, it's quite clear that we need to take action. And that's why the Philippines embarked all in initiative. The engagement started in in October 2015. And for us, it's really a platform to bring everyone together to stop at less than debts, infections, diseases, and so on. And I you see here a list of entities working together in certainly the Minister of Health, which is called the Department of Health here in the Philippines, Doh, and local governments. Very importantly, UN aid safety children are the UN partners, civil society, youth organizations. And I also have to thank the regional office in UNICEF that is very closely collaborating with our country office. So what are the three phases, what is the support we give in the three phases that Charlie has mentioned. So phase one, we support initial data gathering, we try to create data for national and sub national evidence based planning. So sub national means district level, regional level, province level, city level, very important. We have an integrated HIV behavioral and serological surveillance system that is undertaking an exercise every two years and informed the surveillance, system or exercise. We use data for advocacy on national and sub national levels. And as you will see by the presentation from our government colleagues, we focus currently on two cities. And the Phase Two goes on that based on this data collection that we've done, we are at the data is or has been analyzed in terms of age and gender responsiveness. We are developing plans and global strategies based on this data, and very important, meaningful participation of adolescents and youth. And we try to really include these key populations at every level of discussion. I think this is a crucial, very crucial point that we don't forget to include those who are really affected. And how have you translated all in global initiative into the Philippines context, we have basically adopted the global process of all in but we have adapted this looked over processes to the local context, first to national level and then on city level as you will hear, but very important from the city level engagement, we will feed back to the national level in terms of experience in terms of data in terms of analysis and the strategies we will identify. So is really going down to national sub national and go back to national, with our experience to policy level hopefully. And for the phase three. So the next step, we will do and continue to do corrective actions in terms of bottlenecks and data gaps we have identified, we will support implementation of the strategic plans, especially locally, we will continue capacity building ends very important advocacy, together with youth organizations. So, surely that's from my side. Thank you for letting me speak here and over to you.
Surely Can you hear us?
Hello, hello. Yes, yes. Thank you for your introduction on the HIV situation. Adolescents and young populations and the presenter is Dr. Genesis Mesa monta chief HIV surveillance and strategic information unit, Epidemiology, Department of Health, and Miss Jessica Rafaela mirano surveillance officer HIV surveillance and strategic information unit if the monetary Bureau Department of Health Philippines, Dr. Genesis And Ms. Jessica will share with the findings from the assessment exercise in case on city and Cebu City. Over to you, Dr. Genesis And Jessica, thank you.
Thank you, sorry for your introduction. So, as Dr will ensure the org you mentioned the Philippines has taken the initiative to adapt the initiative but in our own country and local context. So I'm going to discuss in more detail the process that we underwent in the past month with regards to the all in adaptation in our country. Since 2009, the Philippines has seen an increase in the number of HIV cases among young people 15 to 24 years old, through our national case reporting system, more over the HBSS which is our national HIV prevalence survey, which we conduct every two years so that risky behaviors such as first sex and first drug use begin when the affected populations are still minor 16 to 17 years old. What protective behaviors such as condom use start much later on. You can see this on the left side of the slide. This information actually convinced our Minister of Health on the rising HIV problem among the youth here in our country. Analyzing data at the sub national level also validated our findings from the case reports as HIV prevalence trend has been increasing among young males who have sex with males 15 to 19 years old, from 2011 to 2015 HVSS specifically into high prevalence cities, which you can see on the right side of the presentation Quezon City and Cebu City. All these information support the need to enhance interventions for young key affected populations in our country. In line with this, a framework enhance Whitecap interventions was developed with partners such as UNICEF, UN AIDS saved the children and other youth advocacy groups beginning January of this year. Our primary action was to call a stakeholders meeting to engage them before implementing the four phases of our framework. This helped us gain buy in from local stakeholders, develop partnerships to aid assessment and gain their commitment that they would use the data from the assessment to plan for appropriate Whitecap interventions in their city. Of course, ultimately, our goal is not only to gather all this data for the sake of assessment, but that these data will eventually be used to change policy and to change programs in our country. In the assessment phase, which is the first phase four methods were used by the country to gather the data we needed. The second phase, which is planning heavily relied on the assessment findings versity to develop evidence based strategies for white cap interventions. We are now in the third phase, which is the implementation of strategies. Then Phase four will be conducted by next year to evaluate the effectiveness of the strategies we are implementing this year, and hopefully see if it can be expanded to other areas within the cities or to other cities within our country as well. My next slides are focused on the four methods used for assessment and descriptive analysis was conducted in late 2015, with technical support from UNICEF Regional Office and the UNICEF country office. And this analysis was turned into an advocacy, briefers specific for Whitecap, which was developed to raise awareness of the increasing problem among the youth here in the country. However, we also wanted to look at the factors contributing to the increasing HIV cases among young people. This called for a more in depth, more disaggregated analysis of HBSS data, because he wanted to answer questions such as what was putting them at risk so early? Or were there risk factors different in each city? Or was there a pattern among subgroups such as those in high school, those in college or those who are not in schools. These together with other questions serve as the basis to creatively analyze the HBSS, which is one of our leaf switches source of data on the affected populations in our country. On the other hand, we also wanted to answer the question, what are the things already being done in each city? So we distributed a tool during the stakeholders meeting to map out what existed and where the intervention gaps through specially on HIV information dissemination, condom distribution, HIV testing and treatment? As a follow up to the HVSS he informant interviews were conducted among young MSM asking questions such as if you feel that you may have HIV or other STIs, what would you do about it? Or where would you prefer to get free condoms or get a free HIV test? To get these information Hussain sites where a high number of young MSM were visited together 60 respondents in each city who were interviewed using a short questionnaire lastly, a focus group discussion type of data collection was conducted, but we wanted to ensure that it will be in the format of a youth friendly workshop. During the pilot workshop, the team realized that there were differences between male and female identifying respondents in terms of their definition of having sex, the terms they use for sex, the risky sexual behaviors that they practice, for example, if they accept payment for sex, and the different protective behaviors such as condom use, that these subgroups practice. This made assessment in the site to conduct two separate workshops for male identifying and female identifying young MSM. Moreover, since possible and key points of for delivery of services were different for college and high school students, two separate workshops were conducted for them as well. To facilitate recruitment of participants existing Whitecap networks such as peer educators, wrote that so we can repeat that 10 to 15 participants we needed per workshop. Collect qualitative data from young people, we needed to design activities that will find and engaging what you effectively provide us with the data we need. For us in the Department of Health. This really required very strong partnership with our with different youth organizations and with different partners who are used to working with young people, because you realize that the usual methods to collect data won't be as effective and we are talking to young key affected populations. Therefore, we developed a slam slam book for the workshop. So we're not sure if you're familiar with the concept of this Lambo. But in the Philippines, they are popular booklets with personal questions, like your favorite color, favorite movie or your favorite code that students exchange among friends to get to know each other better. We decided to adapt this concept and we started with with questions similar to a regular slam book, but eventually asked questions on When was your first kiss? Or do you talk about HIV with friends? So definitely, these are not questions you usually find in slam books you buy anywhere, but you wanted to make it friendly, but at the same time, get the information we are interested in. In this way, while the young MSM were having fun answering the questions through the slam book, and games that we designed, we were able to document their responses really well because we collected this lamp book at the end of each workshop. My next four slides describe the major findings from the assessment. Only one in every five young MSM in Quezon City in Cebu City answered the five basic HIV questions on transmission and prevention corrective. Their most common sources of HIV information were television and friends. However, while seven out of 10 young MSM were studying in schools, few said they get HIV information from the classroom Even though HIV shouldn't be part of the gig eight health curriculum, several reasons for this were identified. First, there is currently no formal training on HIV that are offered to teachers. So it's difficult for us to expect them to be discussing this confidently to their students if they haven't been trained to do it in the first place. Second is that standardized high school textbooks, which are present, contain outdated information on HIV. And lastly, some teachers were not comfortable to discuss the topic on HIV and STI. In fact, they're not even fun. Some teachers are not even comfortable seeing the word sex or related terms within the classroom, which led them to skipping the lesson altogether or discussing it but very, very briefly, the assessment clearly showed that there is an untapped potential in the form of schools, where youth including Whitecap serve as a captive audience. Data from previous HBSS showed the condom use is generally low in the Philippines, well in every round of our HBSS, which we do every two years, so a two to 3% increase in condom use, it still remains low at only 48% among young MSM in Quezon. City and in Cebu City. Around half of these young MSM who did not use a condom, cited on availability of condoms as their primary reason for having unprotected intersects. access to condoms are particularly low among young MSM who were still studying in high school.
However, aside from making condoms available, data show that there is a need to increase proper condom use skills among young MSM. Since none of the workshop participants demonstrated correct condom use, despite their knowledge that condoms protect against HIV. One of our greatest learning from that assessment is really not assuming that just because a person knows what a condom is, or know that it can protect against HIV means that the person has the proper skills to use a condom correctly, and that was something we were able to assess through the demonstration we conducted during the youth friendly workshops. Moving on to the next slide 67% of people living with HIV 20 years old and above have been diagnosed with HIV here in the country. This data come from looking at the case report compared his cases reported in our registry, as compared to the spectrum estimates, which is our projection tool, HIV diagnosis among the older population that share that they will be high at 67%. But only 2% of young plhiv 15 to 17 years old, have been diagnosed. In the Philippines, people below 18 years old need parental consent to be tested for HIV. However, even though 18 to 19 year olds can be tested voluntarily without the need for parental consent. Each diagnosis is only at 19%. The primary reason for not getting tested that was cited in Cebu was having no time while young MSM in Quezon City feel no need to get tested. Missing young plhiv In the first step of HIV diagnosis also leads to low achievement confidence. In fact, a or arity literacy is especially low in our country at only around 2% among young MSM who know what ARD is. Lastly, our findings also show that young MSM who have been reached by peer educators are 12 times as likely to have correct basic knowledge on HIV, as compared to young MSM who have not been reached by a peer educator. Similar findings were seen for condom use and for HIV testing. So this means that somehow are our current efforts to provide services to young people, few peer educators are having an effect on their knowledge their condom use and their HIV testing. However, the issue is the coverage because few young MSM have been reached by peer educators, with only one out of 10 in Quezon City and three out of 10 in Cebu City who have been reached by peer educator for HIV services in the past 12 months. While the well the peer education program has been intensified over the past few years, peer educators mostly reached older MSM. Several small scale activities to also provide services to younger MSM exist, but collaboration is currently weak. Stakeholder survey also revealed that there are recent developments which include a wide gap here education module developed by Save the Children and UNICEF which is scheduled to be disseminated to sites and to be used for fear education training. All these key assessment findings were packaged and presented to stakeholders, and this facilitated their buy in and commitment to enhancing wake up interventions in the Philippines.
There was indeed a wealth of findings that came from the assessment. So next was the critical task of how to translate the findings into strategic plans that the Philippines and the two cities would embrace, own and actually implement. So a core group was organized to discuss the assessment findings, there was a lot of findings, we had to read through that and do a causal analysis and synthesize them into key themes. We then discuss the assessment findings with HIV program managers, and adolescent health program managers from the Department of Health and the two cities. Together, we reviewed the current status of their white cap interventions and explored possible initiatives that they could support in the short term and in the medium term. Since the two cities had two very different dynamics, we customized a three day planning workshop for each city. In preparing for these workshops, the packaging of assessment findings, proper chaining of facilitators, and ensuring that key decision makers would participate were all pivotal. The planning workshop had plenary sessions as well as three smaller discussion groups. Based on their affiliation, the participants were divided into the school group, community group, and NGOs. We had a lot of young MSM who also participated in the planning workshop, which added value and validated the findings from the assessment, as well as the key strategies that the planning workshop develop. We use force field analysis as our planning tool. This process proved to be very facilitative in helping cities understand the HIV situation and intervention needs of their Whitecap. The participants appreciated that every step of the tool was simple, linked and very visual. By the end of the third day, key strategies drawn from the assessment findings were identified. The strategies were anchored on the city's on what the city's already had on closer multi stakeholder collaboration and coordination, and on what could be implemented immediately, but could also be further improved in the long run. Even though Quezon City and Cebu City had different capacities and dynamics for similar key strategies emerged from the two workshops. These include one, tapping the existing village youth councils to expand peer education in their community to development of a standard reference material to strengthen implementation of the high school HIV curriculum. Three establishing functional service delivery networks to link at risk youth in schools and communities, with health service providers and NGOs and for expansion of distribution points for condoms and lubricants. With the assistance of the Department of Health, the Department of Education, UNICEF, global fund through Save the Children and many other very eager partners, the two cities devise city specific ways of implementing these strategies. This slide some arises the Philippines learning during the planning phase from preparation to the conduct of the actual workshops. The wide gap assessment methods discussed by Jessica earlier, as well as this planning template worked very well in the two cities. And we are confident that it will work well in other cities as well as we expand the Whitecap assessment and planning in other cities.
So now, I will go on to discuss on behalf of Quezon. City, their spirit, city specific Whitecap interventions.
For the wakeup prevention in Quezon City. They're included encouraging parents of young people to be adolescent health advocates through adolescent and youth through adolescent and youth development program sessions, empowering the youth leaders of Task Force for youth development to be peer educators and to increase HIV knowledge and awareness among youth in their communities. For the school strategy Quezon City will be establishing a wide gap prevention continuum in schools which I will discuss later. And for organization organizations partnering with guests and city. They will ensure adequate stocks of condoms and loops in partnership with the Quezon City Health Department so that the dealer that there will be a responsive and quick delivery system to all the village youth leaders as well as health centers, so there will be no stop outs of condoms and loops throughout the city. The guest and city prevention continuum for Whitecap in schools aims to provide the general student population with information on HIV STI, condom access points and testing facilities. The aim that there will be no student in Quezon City that lacks the knowledge on HIV and STI as well as the services that are available throughout the city. Then there will be a funneling mechanism to provide young MSM and other young he affected populations with access to psychosocial and health services as needed. Eventually, they hope that Whitecap will be change agents within their schools and their communities. Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista has committed to prioritizing Whitecap interventions in his city. As an HIV advocate himself. He wants to be a role model for the youth. With supportive leaders and evidence, evidence based strategies and the support of partners and communities in the community. Quezon City is on the verge of transformation of a transformative made transformative response that will hopefully soon end the epidemic in the city. Now I turned over to Dr. Elliot Tachyon from Cebu City to discuss the city specific strategies of Cebu in the following slides.
Good morning, everyone. So single slit is located in the southern part of the Philippines and is having a concentrated HIV epidemic. A lot of interventions has been done but mostly for the affected population. But there is no targeted interventions for young key affected population. So we appreciate very much the more in depth analysis of the HBSS data and assessment than during the first phase of the project. So of data for Yankee affected population and to come up with a youth specific interventions. So before the core group, composed of representatives from schools, NGOs, and local government units, although each group will implement the interventions independently, but there will be areas also for inter for convergence. So for this slide, the first activity will be to implement HIV discussion in grade eight health classes using the supplementary reference material in four pilot schools because it was identified that there is no standard material for HIV teaching in the school. So the Department of Health came up with a supplementary reference material that will be used to teach the grade eight students and it will be piloted in four schools have at the same time the city health department and our partner NGOs. I will be providing also HIV 101 To grade nine students using the same teaching materials, that after that, our pipe there is also a partner schools, the Cebu institute of medicine that will adapt a certain barangay in school, when they will utilize medical insurance to provide HIV education also in the schools as well as in the community, and after that to do an assessment also. So after the interventions, the first interventions, or risk assessment will be identical will be done to identify young men having sex with men using a standardized self administered questionnaire, then once they are young, the affected population will be identified, they will be referred to guidance counselors for counseling and to provide information on where to access condom and free HIV testing. I think you're also aware that there's a limitation in our country we're in we cannot do HIV testing for children below 18 years old, unless there's a parent's consent. So in the school, they identify the strategy were in during the PTA or the parents teachers association assembly, they will be doing HIV education, but at the same time, they will get the parents consent for possible HIV testing for their children. So we hope we can address the issue or the parents can set for HIV testing for children below 18 years old. So for to prepare, also, the services that will be done in the health centers, we plan to have a youth friendly center in all barangays, the at barangays. in Cebu City, we will be training personnel to be youth friendly, and to come up with a special day for youth right and you can provide HIV education provide IAC materials, condoms could also be distributed. And they can also schedule HIV counseling and testing. Then we also partner with the task force for youth development. And they plan to help peer advocacy training and utilize the spirit advocates to provide HIV education to the youth in different barangays. And to utilize also activities related to specific for youth like youth festival. And then we also have the youth month when they can also do youth lead activities in the city and in the brown guys. The Department of Social Welfare also planned to institutionalize activities for the integration of HIV education in atomic Familia program, that's a family based development program when parents can also be given HIV education. And maybe we can utilize this also to get the consent of the parents for the HIV testing for their children. So to implement all this, we need a city level policy. We need to capacitate our health personnel, with a partner ship with the NGOs, to come up with the standardized IEC materials to provide education also among our youth. So all these activities we plan to implement for the next four months, then after that we will do the assessment. And if the assessment will be positive, we can roll out all these in all schools in Cebu City, as well as in all barang. Guys. That's all Thank you.
We turn it over. Back to you, Shirley.
Thank you very much, Dr. Genesis. Jessica. Dr. Elliott, thank you very much. So we have we come to the end of the presentations now. And now we'll open up the webinar for your comments or suggestions and questions. So since this is an audio webinar, we'd like to avoid the audio issues. We kindly request you to type in your questions in the instant messenger box. And we will bring that up to our presenters now. So please feel free to type your questions and we'll share them with our presenters.
requested from Priscilla our phase two and phase three already being being read about or still are the planning page. I'm surprised but no mention of legal NSA barriers to access to services. In most instances, I have heard of crystallization of behaviors among key populations. And people, repercussions populations, if there's a problem in the Philippines or not, that is accepted by and verified is not a barrier information and services. See, you mentioned that evaluation next year. Would it be too early for an evaluation given that the outcome or impact to achieve perhaps you could consider a less rigorous process such as run review that looks at different components of the process? What worked and what didn't? And then recommendations to improve products keep up? And just thought, what the age of consent for sex use of condoms. Testing is at what age for responding to surveys. I noticed that as you're flying an age, cheaper two years, and I assume you really meant 15 years can respond. Infants can respond to a survey. Okay. So that again, would you like to take question?
Hi, Shirley. Thank you. Hi, Shirley. This is Jessica. I will answer a few of the questions. Yeah, I will answer a few of the questions that Dr. Priscilla raise. The first question on whether this path is of the phase two and phase three. So actually, we have conducted already the planning workshops in Quezon City and in Cebu City. And now we are at this stage of finalizing the materials that will be used for implementation of the school based programs. And so we're basically in the last stages of operationalizing and preparing all of the materials needed for implementation. And actually, our tight timeline is motivated by the fact that both Quezon City and Cebu City wish to implement already these interventions this coming school year, which is already beginning this June 2016. And so are we want to really start the implementation of the school based strategies specifically by July 2016. At the retest. For the second question, there is actually a legal barrier when it comes to HIV testing. I mentioned briefly earlier that the 2%. percentage of those diagnosed with HIV among the 15 to 17 years old might be because of the legal barriers that are present since they need parental consent before they can get tested for each AV. However, for other services, such as getting information on HIV or getting free condoms, most of the private facilities can provide condoms without legal barriers, in terms of the of the behavior, the MSM behavior being criminalized. Here in the country, there is some stigma or discrimination against males who have sex with males. But there isn't anything legally that would criminalize same sex behavior here in the Philippines. And just to add to answer one last one question from Priscilla, as well, for the HBSS here in the country, we are able to include 15 to 17. Our inclusion criteria for the HSS is they have to be at least 15 years old to be included in the survey. This is guided by the United Nations Child Protection Convention Convention on the Rights of the Child which allows those 15 years old and above to be included in a surveillance, just making sure that they are not going to be provided with interventions that have not yet been tested and proven to be effective. And so we do have data gaps for those below 15 years old, and the only reason why we have data on the zero to 14 years old is that these are data from the police reporting system in the country and from the estimates projection from spectrum. So I will pass it now to doctors and nurses to answer the remaining questions raised by Dr. Priscilla.
In terms of the evaluation, we will be evaluating only the school based intervention programs next year, because we want to be able to roll this out to other schools right now. We only will be implementing the school based interventions in a few high schools in Quezon City and in Cebu City. The evaluation is important for us to be able to roll out Are these interventions in other places, as well as in other schools as well as in other cities? For your question regarding the age of consent for sex? It is at the it's actually 12 years old in the Philippines. But consent for marriage depends if you're a male or a female. So 13 years old, up to the age of 21, is there. So there are very different legal consent ages, depending on what we're talking about. And so there are different issues that will be encountered. But in terms of age of use for condoms, there is none. And age of testing is 18. That you, surely.
Okay, thank you. So the next question is chapter Emanuela. And be grateful if you can just mention your country. Thanks for speak, but my question is how the services are integrated with the services provided by the health system?
Thank you for that question. We made sure that all the interventions that we propose are anchored in what is already existing, both for the Department of Health and also the Department of Education, as well as the visions of both cities Cebu and Quezon. City. There are things that are what we can say new initiatives that have not been fully tapped both at the Department of Education and the Department of Health. However, we did not propose any new intervention that is not under the mandate of the two institutions. So we did not propose anything that could not be sustained by the government. We, all the interventions and initiatives are anchored in things that the cities also have, will own and implement, not just for this particular initiative, but for the years to come. We actually have a good opportunity because it's election year this year, and we have a new batch of local chief executives, and as well as the president and cabinet. So we hope that they would also support these initiatives that we are proposing.
Thank you, Dr. Genesis. The next question is from ares valid riano from units regional support team here in Bangkok. I did not see specific interventions on social media, could there be plans to reach using social media, particularly adolescents with smartphones, to be very, very specific among young MSM on dating apps? Thank you.
Think Hey, Shirley. Thank you. And thank you, arias for your question. So in terms of the the partnership with social media, actually one of the things that we tapped into during the planning workshop, it's not necessarily the use of social media already, but it was highlighted the importance of the partnership between the government units, local government units, and existing media partners and NGOs, whose strength is marketing and packaging information. So one major partnership that will be built would be to develop materials, standard materials that are youth friendly, that are pleasing to the eyes that are simple that will be developed together with media and NGO partners that will be disseminated in schools but at the same time will be disseminated in Facebook groups in YouTube and in other available social networks already. In fact, Quezon City has already opened a Facebook page specific for young Aki affected populations, because they really wanted to promote the different services that are available for the youth in their city. Moreover, a video is currently in the process of being developed in partnership with Save the Children in order to present basic information on HIV and available services on HIV to the youth in a in an interactive manner. And this will be rolled out to different schools and via different social media networks as well.
Thank you, Jessica. Thanks for letting us know for the plan. Start covering Oh four case on the next question is from Maria, and thanks may vary from Indonesia. Jakarta, could you elaborate more on the outreach strategy, please? And yes.
Thank you for that question. So the outreach strategy is very different for the school based organic the school based intervention as well as the community intervention. So for the community intervention, there are existing peer educators specific for Whitecap that is being led by different organizations that are already working in Quezon City and in Cebu City. For example, there are white peer, achieve, and other its society of the Philippines act 2015, however, and global funds received the children, however, the coverage for Whitecap has been very low in the past. So for this particular plan, name, we realized that there is an institutionalized organization in every village, in both Quezon City and in Cebu City and in all cities in the Philippines, who are actually elected officials called the task force for youth development. And they are very much open to be HIV advocates in their own communities. So this is an outreach so the the outreach strategy that is being used by global fund through Save the Children, that same strategy will be used to train all that the FY D youth leaders to be peer advocates in each village in Quezon. City and in Cebu City. So basically, we did not make a new strategy for outreach, we adapted what is already being done and is effective and just expanding it to broader reach and to peer educators who are actually living and interacting within those communities. For school based intervention, the outreach strategy will be basically, twofold. One is there will be a funneling mechanism, where in the general student population will be provided an opportunity to access services. So that's one the second is you developing change agents among the student leaders in the schools so that they would also reach out to their peers within the schools. I hope that answers the question.
Thank you, Dr. Genesis. The next question, I'll go to you, Keith CUDA from Guatemala. And he says it's the same questions and airy. So we will not go back to that. So the question is, how do you the next question is have you coordinate with the Ministry of Education or Department of Education? Also, there's another factor which is about legislators about religious leaders
about offering sex education and education, so maybe you could answer the poll question for you can, Dr. Priscilla?
I think it should be. So to answer Dr. Priscilla's question. So um, regarding the resistance that we faced in schools and in the church, the Philippines being a Catholic country, there has been some response when it comes to providing sex education within the classroom. However, one important learning that we had during the entire process is the importance really, of presenting and sharing the assessment findings to those stakeholders. So during the planning workshop, we invited teachers, principals from different schools within the country, we invited different church leaders as well. And so they after the presentation of the findings, they were the ones who approached us and said that they didn't realize that that is already the severity of the HIV situation among young people hear in the country, and it really made a difference in their perspective of things. However, it we still met some resistance. And one of the things that was helpful in our experience to emphasize was that to say that we're not actually promoting sexual promiscuity, because our data shows that they already have started having sex when they are 1214. On average, it's 16. But sometimes it's lower. And so we try to emphasize that the More specific interventions, when it comes to condom distribution or condom demonstration will be focused on the young MSM already people, young people who are already engaging in risky behaviors, but do not have access to Protective Services. Second, or one good thing about the Philippines is that our law, our AIDS Law actually mandates all schools to teach HIV education in the classroom. The problem is it is not being implemented because of what you have mentioned the resistance that we face. However, HIV has been recently added as part of the grade eight health curriculum as we updated our school system. And I think that is one of the good things that we really banked on and tried to strengthen during this entire process, because we didn't have to undergo the approval of the of the curriculum or the lesson because it is already part of the curriculum, but it is not being strongly implemented due to the lack of training, lack of standardized materials and the discomfort of some teachers. And so that is part of what we want to address this month in preparation for implementation. And lastly, just these efforts in in some pilot schools in Quezon City and in Cebu City, our hope is that the results that's why you want to evaluate it is that we want to share the results to other schools so that we can encourage them of the positive effects that these are programs could hopefully yield towards the end of our implementation.
Which is very important to know how you built on already existing available strategies that are already in place affect the education system and curriculum and you build on that. So I think it's good to know that instead of doing new things that people are looking at already, so the existing strategies to reach tutors. So the next question is from Dr. Priscilla what are the outcomes to be evaluated? She still thinks that the time period and probably your target the next question in the Oregon genetic indicators we recommend her review and valid data beyond HIV, including other sexual and reproductive health indicators education, social protection, mental health, etc. But he's also consider if not why. Thank you to Dr. Genesis And Jessica.
Thank you, Shirley. Before I answer that question, Dr. areata, I would like to answer the question regarding collaborating with the Department of Education. A doctor.
In most cities in the Philippines, we have the local AIDS Council in the Department of Education is also a member. So we did have a hard time coordinating with the city Ministry of Health in terms of HIV AIDS education, because they are already quite old the system, especially the local AIDS Council
for 4%, this question regarding other indicators. Unfortunately, we were not able to add social protection and mental health. However, there were questions regarding sexual and reproductive health indicators, but maybe not very exhaustive. Our goal for this assessment was to utilize the data that we already have to make sure that we are able to plan very well and implement something immediately because there is a political context that were that we were also running after, because I mentioned that this is an election year. And so we would have new officials coming this year. So it would be very opportune for us to actually implement strategies within the year in that and not take too much time. If we develop an assessment that would take a very, very long time, then we might miss out on this window of opportunity. However, that being said, we are open to have continual assessments to include the indicators that Priscilla mentioned. This was just something that we wanted to start already and make sure that it would move forward. Because of the political context. However, we are definitely open to include other indicators. In the next surveys that we will be doing especially since next year is actually an HBSS data collection year.
Thank you, Doctor Genesis that's very helpful to know that next year, you could be considering some of these additional indicators are included in the tool. That's also helpful for other countries to know you know how on how they could also go ahead with some of these including them in their forthcoming surveys, the ones that are not already into It currently. And there's a comment from our colleague from New York that UNICEF in collaboration with South African aids Trust has started age of consent reviewed that leads to the development of learning for country policy reform. As part of this, we are inviting adolescents all around the world to share their own experiences and views and views in accessing storage and HIV. We appreciate your support in disseminating the following Survey Monkey link among your partners working with adolescent networks to add the voice to the global drive to drop barriers for access to Youth and Family Services. So we have the link there so please feel free to download the link and you can also share your countries and region and we also have UN AIDS epi pet from the unit medulla who's who has been he says to contribute partners partnership especially with risk exceed the initiative, especially in the actual implementation of provider strategies and their calibration, you will join team on aids the Philippines maintains intensity and as part of the six human conversion sites tend to be that happy to know that part of their convergence and that really that we're all the same in terms of the effectiveness of our strategies as well as the budget that's really helpful thank you for your partnership
if there are no other questions I had it over again
any further comments that you'd like to share? You may please feel free to do so we can then close the webinar thank you so much
anything from the Philippines team if not we can close
Okay, seems like there are more questions at the moment and thank you so much for joining me especially wanted our Philippine letters back get it put this with a direct team Manila as a UNICEF office that has been working together to prepare the presentations and present for us today, so there are further questions we can continue to touch on email. Please note that we will also be sharing the link to the recording as well as the presentations. UNICEF headquarters I will be sharing the document with everyone so we can continue to keep in touch and share our learnings and strategies from your own countries. So thank you once again. Thank you for joining us Dr. Chen has a closing message we are currently request to share with us.
You Hello, there
Hello, looks like we'd love to become your doctor Genesis
Hello, Shirley, thank you. Okay, I thought last you Hello, you can hear us now. Can you hear us now? Yeah, please go ahead. Okay.
All right doctors then would like to say something.
Yes, please go ahead.
Thank you. Sure the so in behalf of the Department of Health and all our partners here, we would like to sincerely extend our appreciation and thank you to all who have helped the Philippines be able to implement our phase one and phase two of the all in initiative, we would like to especially thank UNICEF and your needs the Global Fund through Save the Children and all our youth partners who have helped us understand our evolving Whitecap situation here in the Philippines and we really hope that this will only be a start. The Department of Health is committed to continue this initiative and to sustain this initiative because we do not want a single young person infected with HIV in the future
thank you with that optimistic and very encouraging net we'd like to thank you all once again for joining us and can we continue to keep in touch with you and we check the presentation and thank you once again to our team in the brothers our team in a UNICEF Philippines and especially Dr. ilyon for flying over to Manila to be together with our teams again thank you so much B which we wish you.
Whatever you do that eight.
Right Evening RIGHT. Evening Right
