
[Speaker 1] WTF you're on the series what the future what the future aims to dive deep into hot topics that you the youth may be scratching your heads about.
Basically, we ask tough questions so you don't have to what the 
HI everyone remaining every here with you and welcome back to another episode of WTF what the future what the future is a podcast series brought to you by the National Youth Council's Asia ready exposure program brought to you in partnership with the Singapore Institute of International Affairs. Today's topic is something that I think the two of us have spoken about before. Yes, sustainability.
Sustainability is the buzzword, right. I think in recent years, a lot of people have been saying, you know, you need to be more sustainable climate change, save the world global warming, if not, well, the world's going to end.
So what is your personal view on sustainability? Well, I think sustainability is something that a lot of people perceive to be, oh, I have to change my whole life. You know, I have to go from zero to 100. But that's not really the case. In my opinion, I think if everyone takes a small step to what sustainability that makes an impact as well. Right? Yeah, I think every small thing that you do really plays a big part in that as well. myself, personally, you know, that I do this beach cleanups, you know, I take my time to do that sometimes when I find the time and the discipline to do it. But I feel like it's all these small little steps you know, your own sustainability habits in your daily life that actually make a bit of a difference. Yeah, like something as simple as not using a single use cutlery and bringing your own perhaps reusable cutlery that we always do in the office. Yes, we have our own sets, or even a disposable straws, recycling. All these are acts of sustainability. But we can't claim to be experts on sustainability far from it, how it affects the youth how to pick Singaporeans. But thankfully, we have two experts in the studio with us today. Our first guest speaker is Mr. lagi, young Director of Policy and Planning at the energy market authority. The EMA thank you so much for joining us. Mr law. Right? Thanks. Yes. So tell us a bit more about the EME.
[Speaker 2] So the EMA is both the regulator and industry developer for the energy sector. So in essence, we are the Marta, we will look after the energy companies in Singapore, we make sure they play ball, we follow the rules, but the same time we work with the industry to really develop the sector to try and push sustainability and other measures, security etc. Within Singapore. So your regulatory authority, yes, but also industry development as well. So we both partners as well as the policemen. 
[Speaker 1] So who do you police, the big companies basically,
[Speaker 2] we mainly deal with the big energy companies, so the power generation companies, the retailers who sell your electricity packages to consumers. So those are the ones that we generally deal with, but we deal with a assortment of companies.
[Speaker 1] So our second expert joining us here in the studio today is the Director of Global ESG strategy and engagement at s&p Global Miss Cheryl Chen, thank you very much for joining us. Thank you. Tell us a bit more about the strategies that SMP global are working on at the moment.
[Speaker 3] Firstly, about s&p Global. We are a financial data analytics company. We have credit ratings division, we also run the s&p 500 and other market indices. And we provide financial and market data to the investors and financial market participants. So for us, we do have a netzero commitment. We publish our annual sustainability report for more than 10 years now. And we try to work with a wide variety of internal stakeholders to walk the talk on ESG.
[Speaker 1] Okay, so I think before we go into a topic, right, what I would like to ask is, when we talk about energy, we hear a lot of you know, very similar words, like you said, net zero, we hear clean energy, we hear sustainability. If we talk about energy as a whole here in Singapore into the youth, what would you what would be your take on it?
[Speaker 3]  I mean, energy powers everything around us, right? Our homes, our offices, our school's iPads, computers. And, you know, when our first learning about sustainability, there's always just food energy, water Nexus, okay. It's really interesting. I mean, it's, it really explains why the current high energy prices leads to increased price of food because you need energy. You run your farm, you need to transport food, and that leads to increase food prices. If your energy price increase, and water as well, water is needed for foods, energy is needed to treat water. And there's all this intricacies between water, food and energy, right. So this is the reason why the current high energy prices is causing disruptions because it has all these linkages to the other parts of essentials and goods and services.
[Speaker 1] Absolutely. What about you guys? What do you think about energy and Singapore?
[Speaker 2] I think it's important. If you mentioned our entire lifestyle Today, modern lifestyle is built on fossil fuels. Now everything that we do, everything we have is pure energy. And now we're transitioning away from fossil fuels to something that is cleaner, hopefully more sustainable. and affects our day to day life. We, as Cheryl mentioned, my household of four people, we have three laptops to two iPads, a handful for me and my wife. So our entire lifestyle revolves around technology and technology relies around energy. So this is really, how can we maintain the current lifestyle yet having a much more sustainable way of achieving this this important for us? 
[Speaker 1]Yeah, I think everyone's talking about energy these days. Right. And I think it's good to have a better understanding of it, especially for the youth, because it affects their future as well. I mean, we're a bit older than that. So hit slightly, maybe older. Before, right, but I think one of the biggest things that happened this past year is actually the Russia Ukraine war. Now, we've heard that this has some impacts on energy. But we don't exactly know how that affects, you know, energy. Can anyone have you speak on them?
[Speaker 3] I think, put it in broad terms, right. I mean, Russia is one of the largest exporter of oil and LNG. And when the war happens, there were sanctions there were import bans, and then supply dropped. And when supply drop, there isn't sort of ready, you know, alternative sources, right, or existing resources, were able to ramp up production so quickly. So prices spike. And Europe is heavily reliant on fossil fuels from Russia, some of them have impose import bans, as well. So with that, it really costs the supply and demand sort of mismatch, and then prices will start to spike. And there are positive and negatives, you know, on the negative side of the house, people start to have a wake up call, right. We are over reliant to be on point on fossil fuels. Still, when we are supposed to transit to a low carbon economy, we are over reliant on certain large exporters. And all these really rings the bell that we need to diversify both the energy mix to cleaner energy sources, and also the sauce mix. 
[Speaker 1]Right. So speaking on things like you know, positive and negative, we know that the energy crisis has been happening because of this war in Ukraine. Do you think young that it's helped or hindered the global energy transition into you know, renewable energy? Has it really hindered it? Or do you think it's helped a little bit,
[Speaker 2] it has both positives and negatives. So the negative is that there's some backsliding people have resorted back into using more fossil fuels. Because energy security is ultimately extremely important as well, you do want to move towards a more cleaner transition, but you have people freezing in their homes, right during winter, or have not enough electricity. So that's important. However, this is also triggered in additional investments, both from the public and the private sector, governments as well as companies to really push invest in new technologies, advance the development of technologies that may potentially help us to spread this, speed up the transition. And also to actually build and deploy more of these technologies. Talk a little bit about Singapore. So we do not import gas from Russia. So you were thinking, oh, so then we will cover right? No problem for us. But the truth is that the gas market in the world, it's a global market, people are buying from different sources. And when Europe is has less gas from Russia, they buy from different sources, and they're competing with Singapore for these same sources of guests. And this is pushing up prices. And therefore you see the impact on energy prices in Singapore, even though we are not directly importing any electricity or any gas from Russia.
[Speaker 1] Where do we then Singapore stand in this transition? I mean, we're so small, you wouldn't think we would have an impact or footprint on the global energy crisis. But where do we stand 
[Speaker 2]is true, we think Singapore will only produce maybe 0.011% of our capability by revenue numbers. Really, really small number, okay. It's almost a small red dot right. So, as an actual contributor of emissions, we are very low, right, but we are seen as almost a bellwether for developing actually developed countries. So we are, if Singapore can do it, then other countries will will take the lead. And if we can't do it, then they'll take they will say that Singapore can't do it, then why? How can any other country or developing countries even stand a chance? So Singapore has this role as a global leader We're doing a lot. We're trying our best to do as much as we can, within our natural constraints for Singapore, we don't have any natural resources. Yeah, we import almost all of energy 95% of natural gas into Singapore. So we're really reliant on fossil fuels, it is a difficult transition for Singapore. So if Singapore is able to do it, this shows that actually, it's really doable around the world where many countries have much more natural resources that can tap on
[Speaker 1] a lot of people talk about net zero net zero emissions, right. And Singapore has actually announced that we aim to achieve net zero emissions by the year 2050. So if you're seeing the outcome and emission is 0.11%, Net Zero, does that mean 0%
[Speaker 2] So the aim is for Net Zero is that basically Singapore in on aggregate producers zero emissions, it doesn't mean that we don't produce any emissions but that's some negative as well. So you can extract if you're able to extract carbon emissions from the environment as well that's negative. So plus minus you add off, and then we get net zero emissions from Singapore.
[Speaker 1] But we still land scarce, how are we going to take back the emissions? How are we going to have the infrastructure?
[Speaker 3] There are sort of creative solutions. Last year, the Tonga largest floating solar PV farm was launched, I actually saw that, yeah, that was like 120,000 solar panels, like 45, like football field sized. And that can power I think, what 16,000 In HDB homes in a year. And it's floating solar farms on the Tonga reservoir, you know, these innovative solutions and ideas really, you know, kind of help us transcend our constraints and challenges, right? 
[Speaker 1] I've got a question about solar panels. How much energy can the solar panel actually produce? Oh? Is there like an actual number to calculate it?
[Speaker 2] There is, I don't have the actual number. But essentially, a solar panel produces about four hours worth of energy on total over the end, in terms of the land footprint, solar is about 600 times less dense than a turbine, which is why we have this problem that ultimately, as much as solar is a more sustainable and most viable renewable resource in Singapore, we cant run totally on solar, because he only powers us during the day. And also because it requires a lot of land. And ultimately, Singapore has land scarce, and we are not able to put enough solar panels to power the entire of Singapore. 
[Speaker 1] So what are the sources then? Because I don't I mean, if you think about apart from solar energy, the rest I know, maybe nuclear energy. I mean, when we couldn't have nuclear energy here in Singapore, can we.
[Speaker 2] So the me, we laid out what we call the energy storage for Singapore, and then really talked about the force features that we think will be able to power Singapore over the long run. So the first one is natural gas, which we talked about it is a fossil fuel, but it’s the cleanest fossil fuel there is today. And today we run on 95%. Over time, we will want to reduce our reliance on some natural gas, but it's going to be a transition. So we are likely to continue to rely on this for next 10 20 years or so. So it's important that we continue to have secure energy that will continue to maintain our lifestyles and power companies in Singapore. The second stage is solar, we talked about it, it's the most viable renewable resource. But ultimately, there's a limit, we estimate even by 2050, we can get at most 10%, if not less than that of Singapore's total needs through solar. So that's really only a small fraction of what we really consume on a day to day basis. The third one that we're working actively on is what we call regional power grids. So actually drawing energy, not just from Singapore, but around the region, we buy water from Malaysia, so possibly you could buy electricity via natural gas from them as well. Right. And this way, potentially, you propose up to 30% of our total needs. The fourth one is what we call low carbon alternatives. And this is what Charlotte talks about, we are taking a step of faith into the future in terms of what are possible. And we're relying on technologies that will continue to somewhat nascent today, that hopefully will mature as time goes along, and we will be able to deploy them in Singapore. The big one, which is we talked about is yes. Right. So we have a national hydrogen strategy. We are pushing towards this technology today. It's available, but it's extremely expensive. So if you use petrol hydrogen today, we will probably pay three, four times the prices that we pay today. Right. So it's really expensive today. But it's the momentum, a lot of countries are seeing this as a possible way for them to decarbonize the power sectors.
[Speaker 1] How has Singapore approached this over the last few years, this regional collaboration,
[Speaker 3] I think we have really seen strong, I think uptake, right, in terms of awareness that there is untapped opportunities. Right. Sustainability are obviously the climate change and energy transition is a huge risk. But it's also a huge business and green market opportunity. Right. And I think in the last five, three years, we do see our neighboring countries, you know, Laos, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, de are realizing that they can tap into the green energy market as well. They have land, they have the natural conditions, which are, you know, they can deploy solar farms, they can potentially tap on hydro, or there's a lot of hydro dams in Laos, for example. They can turn on wind energy, and collaboration is really bringing our value to the table, right? There are some countries that has the land and natural resources, but maybe not so strong in terms of capital and funding. And then there are some countries that have capital and funding, but maybe we don't have the land or you know, the natural resources. And it's really coming together, right, bring our expertise, our experience, the markets and the systems. And it's really We are about to get on this point. How can we make the pie bigger for everybody?
[Speaker 1] I think it bring it back to the youth again, as we, as they grow older, right? We are kind of old already. But as they grow older, right, they are looking for job opportunities. And from what I know, there's an aim to create 50,000 green jobs in Singapore by 2030. Right. So how is this kind of something that you've can look forward to? And what are these green jobs? Exactly?
[Speaker 2] I think Cheryl touched about it right at the beginning that way, sustainability is something that's growing as a skill set. There's not just within sustainability sector, for example, biochar cuts across many sectors. So there's a lot of work on energy efficiency, that can cut across any kind of industry, we have specialized in terms of, you know, technologies that we are deploying on the energy side, for example, like hydrogen, etc, you can build skill sets in the area, carbon credits, carbon trading, it's a whole the finance sector, it's a growing area that we're looking into how can grow the Singapore economy and that fun as well. And there are jobs on that front as well. So there's really a wide spectrum of jobs that are available. What is of course, missing is there's a lack of skill sets within the main power today. So even from like the electric sector, you may be very used to doing wiring your houses, but I didn't know how to wire a solar panel. You know, some not everybody is well experienced with this. And we need to ramp up the skills where everybody is able to be familiar with new technologies.
[Speaker 1] when you  consider the skills, green skills is that what it's categorized under, like being able to fix a solar panel and stuff like that are those considered green skills,
[Speaker 2] I have collected my EME who are working on developing what new frameworks are for green jobs, etc. So there's a range of different skills that are required. And they range both from technical to more your market into other kind of skill sets as well. So those will be included as some of the skills but I think that it's only a fraction of the different skill set that we're looking at, I think there's a range of different things that we can look into.
[Speaker 1] There's so many different roles, right, if you think about in any other industry, is just that these roles are in the green industry. So because of that the architect means because because you need a certain level of knowledge and understanding of the green sector, in order to even do let's say something like marketing for the green sector, you need to know what it is what your problems are, who your audiences. So for the youth, you know, if you're looking for jobs, perhaps in the green sector, I think that will be the hot sector for the next decade or so. I mean, you can check it out, right, see what's online, check with your schools or higher Institute of learning to see what kind of opportunities there may be for you, or even check out the Asia ready exposure program.
[Speaker 3] And onto domains point, it's not just green jobs, per se, like a narrow focus lens, right, but really a wide angle lens. To make sustainability sustainable. I think we need to decentralize it, we need to integrate it into as many things everywhere, all the time. And we have all this different jobs. You know, I liaise with colleagues in finance, they are helping us to price climate risks. I'm working with colleagues in procurement, they're helping us to look at our scope, three emissions in our supply chain and sustainable procurement. I'm liaising with colleagues in our global real estate, on how we choose between which green building to consolidate our staff in so all these roles with wasn't as big a role, say, you know, three to five years back, but now you are seeing more and more of these, you know, sustainable finance, you're seeing more and more of these sustainability integrated roles, but not in the corporate sustainability team. But they are in operations and procurement. They are in, you know, research, they are in tech, and you know, marketing in social media. So there are all these different, I would say interesting synergies between different domains, and sustainability. 
[Speaker 1] If the youth maybe are in a school or in a company and internship, and it's not a green transitioning company, right. But they themselves want to be like, you know, I want to do something in my daily life that can help this green transition to help sustainability. What will be a few of these things that you would tell the youth you know, start here, start small, you know, and it will make a difference, even if you don't think it is,
[Speaker 3] I think two domains point is really, I think walking the talk, right? And I think many times it's not a knowledge gap, we already know what to do, right? Use a reusable bag, use a water bottle, setting your aircon to 24 degrees. eat less meat, consume less, buy less take public transport. And the goal is really not to be perfect, like do all of the above or nothing is really to do what you can and to advocate others to follow the same right it's If your family members, you know, parents are going to do the same as well,
[Speaker 1] any other, you know, kind of like last words that you would love to tell a youth out there about, he'll be sustainable or maybe growing into a sustainable career,
[Speaker 3] I would see the opportunities are unprecedented in the space, right. And sustainability and sustainable development is both, I would say the biggest risks biggest threats, but also the biggest opportunity of our generation, right. And it is to find ways to have your niche in sustainability is such a broad area. You don't have to be in a green job, per se, but where you are, who you are, what you're doing, you can integrate sustainability and make sustainable choices, even in your work life or in your day to day life.
[Speaker 2] I think for a lot of youth, they may think that it's something really difficult and they're too young and you know, they can maybe to rely on their older adults, etc. To do so this, but I've been to several universities or even junior colleges, etc. And the people that some of them are really well educated it really we know their stuff. So if you want to, you really can actually learn the things, understand them well, and then change your lifestyle, change the way you work, choose the companies that you work in, and hopefully that will drive a trifecta of real sustainable change.
[Speaker 1]  I think for me, it's a situation of like, you know, kind of give and take, like you said, you know, it's not, it's practically impossible to say, you know, I am sustainable at 100% rate, you know, like, we try our best to take public transport, we try our best to, you know, put the aircon at 24 degrees and stuff like that.
To me, I think it's so much more than that, right? I mean, that's a first step for sure. But after, you know, hearing from sharing young, I feel like sustainability. Like she said, unprecedented times, this is the time to take action. It's our never essentially, but I just want to give a big thanks to Cheryl as well as Geelong for a couple years spending a time here. Yeah, and sharing with us from your own like field of work and from your own expertise. What sustainability really is.
Yeah, I think it was very insightful. Now I think Jimmy knows how to properly recycle. 
